# About my working philosophy

Software engineering for me is a tool to create useful things. It might sound obvious at first glance but there is a subtle important difference between writing a code cause you just like coding and writing a code cause you would like to implement the system that will resolve the problem you passionate about. That way of thinking brings me to the system development area where a resolution you're looking for lays way beyond just code of an application. System architecture actually integrates people who will be using it, specialists who will support it sustainability, cash flow that will make it financially stable, business possibilities and limitations that the decision will bring, etc. Coding decisions must accounting their implications for the project's future.

My intention to generate ideas that solves specific problems from different business areas had transformed into interest in startup creation. I had a lot of ideas during previous time, two of which had passed the "I can try to implement it" filter. Even though both of my startups fails, working on them had pushed me to gain knowledge from wide range of business related tasks. That gives me ability to better understand business needs during negotiations with chief level management. I had courage to explain and argument my proposed decisions from different perspectives by modeling consequences for different layers of system: code support, UX, staff education, hardware requirements, impact on staff productivity and errors rate, possible time saving amount or risk of more time consuming, limitations imposed on other planned features and so on. A few times CEOs of the companies invited me at business meetings not related to the project I had creating for them, just to ask my opinion and possible advices on the topic they discussing. 

I'm not hard bonded to a one specific programming language or framework. Actually, I have some level of knowledge in 7 programming languages and reviewing available frameworks, packages, services from time to time. I must admit that some of that knowledge is legacy or basic. Anyway that has an impact on learning every new tech. During switching period I had reviewed, tried and analyze a lot of different software creation technologies to make conscious decision on what I need to know to achieve ability to create things that I'm interested in. 